# [Quarter Final 2](https://youtu.be/1y8Mt2SW3i8) (*ft.* Rohan, Saurav, Sulagna, Sumukhi)


1. What is the chess position called in which the player cannot move any piece without placing his king in check?
> :heavy_check_mark: Stalemate


2. The name of which enclosure is derived from the Greek unit of measurement for the distance covered in six hundred feet?
> :heavy_check_mark: Stadium


3. Which film in the James Bond series is named after Ian Fleming's retreat in Jamaica?
> :heavy_check_mark: Golden Eye


4. What name was adopted by Charles Edward Jeanneret when he abandoned his watch engraving profession to enter the world of architechture?
> :heavy_check_mark: Le Corbusier


5. **X** Island in the Pacific Ocean was discovered by the Dutch navigator Jacob Roggeveen on **X** Sunday in 1772. What is **X**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Easter Island


6. In the middle ages, which condiment belonging to the ginger family was called *Indian saffron* because of its colour?
> :heavy_check_mark: Turmeric


7. What term meaning **little war** in Spanish, was first used to describe the irregular military force who helped the Duke of Wellington in his Iberian campaigns?
> :heavy_check_mark: Guerilla


8. The name of which Indian state literally means **three cities**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Tripura


9. Which American city, the sixth largest in the country, takes its name from the Greek for **brotherly love**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Philadelphia


10. Who is the Roman goddess of flowers and fruitfulness, presiding over everything that blooms?
> :heavy_check_mark: Flora


11. In 1948, the All India Radio's first external service was started in which South East Asian country to support its struggle against Dutch colonialism?
> :heavy_check_mark: Indonesia


12. What discovery was figured out by German chemist Friedrich Kekule while in a dream on a bus in 1865?
> :heavy_check_mark: Benzene rings


13. *Come Fly With Me* is the story of which former North Caroline and NBA star?
> :heavy_check_mark: Michael Jordan


14. Which island located in San Francisco Bay, housed a maximum security prison between 1934 and 1963?
> :heavy_check_mark: Alcatraz