# [Quarter Final 6](https://youtu.be/pNWS1a4rVXA) (*ft.* Aakash, Ashish, Prashasti, Zakir)


1. According to legend, which ancient city takes its name from the nose of Surpanakha which was cut off by Lakshmana in the Ramayana?
> :heavy_check_mark: Nasik


2. In Indian musical terminology, what is the feminine of Raga?
> :heavy_check_mark: Ragini


3. What is the legal term for a person who has given false evidence under oath?
> :heavy_check_mark: Perjurer


4. Which cocktail made of pineapple juice, coconut and rum literally means **strained pineapple** in Spanish?
> :heavy_check_mark: Pina Colada


5. Which vehicle name came about from the Army's use of abbreviation of the term **General Purpose**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Jeep


6. In Greek mythology, what astronomical feature do the twins Castor and Pollux represent?
> :heavy_check_mark: Gemini


7. Which metal is also known as quicksilver?
> :heavy_check_mark: Mercury


8. Which liquor is mixed with fruit juice to make Margarita cocktail?
> :heavy_check_mark: Tequila


9. In which city would you come across India's oldest synagogue, built early as 1565?
> :heavy_check_mark: Cochin


10. In 1966, which scientist, widely regarded as the architect of India's space program, succeeded Homi Bhabha as the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission?
> :heavy_check_mark: Vikram Sarabhai


11. **Moonwalk**, edited by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, is the autobiography of which musician?
> :heavy_check_mark: Michael Jackson


12. The name of which ornamental plant is derived from the Greek word for **testicle**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Orchid


13. Where does bile juice get stored in the human body before going into the intestine?
> :heavy_check_mark: Gall Bladder


14. Which animal-related royal sacrifice in ancient India is believed to have ensured the prosperity and fertility of the kingdom?
> :heavy_check_mark: Ashwamedh


15. Which Indian diplomat, born Swarup Kumari, was elected the first woman president of the United Nations General Assembly?
> :heavy_check_mark: Vijay Lakshmi Pandit


16. How do we know what the Romans called the city of Lutetia in ancient Gaul?
> :heavy_check_mark: Paris

