# [Quarter Final 3](https://youtu.be/5iBO7Fvw6QI) (*ft.* Kannan, Navin, Sapan, Shreemayee)


1. In the **Mahabharata**, who was Abhimanyu's mother?
> :heavy_check_mark: Subhadra


2. Which company that started life in 1900 is named after a South African antelope?
> :heavy_check_mark: Reebok


3. Along which famous road is Rudyard Kipling's novel **Kim** set?
> :heavy_check_mark: Grand Trunk Road


4. Which body of water did Englishman John Hanning Speke discover while exploring Africa in 1857 and subsequently name after his queen?
> :heavy_check_mark: Victoria Falls


5. Which space mission in 1970 intended for moon landing got cancelled because of a ruptured tank in the service module?
> :heavy_check_mark: Apollo 13


6. What item of common use was built by Scottish scientist James Dewer and named after the Greek word for heat?
> :heavy_check_mark: Thermos


7. Which ceremony initiates a young male into the Jewish religious community when he is 13 years and 1 day old?
> :heavy_check_mark: Bar Mitzvah


8. Which member of the victorious Indian team won the Man of the Match Award in the 1983 World Cup Cricket final?
> :heavy_check_mark: Mohinder Amarnath


10. Gottfried Leibniz was one of the two mathematicians who developed calculus independently. Who was the other?
> :heavy_check_mark: Issac Newton


11. The biologist's symbol for female is derived from the sign of the hand mirror of which Roman goddess?
> :heavy_check_mark: Venus


12. What term involves the technique of applying printed materials to a panel or canvas?
> :heavy_check_mark: Collage


13. In Hindu myth, who is considered to be the physician of the gods?
> :heavy_check_mark: Dhanvantari


14. Which English novelist, born Eric Arthur Blair in MOtihari, Bihar, served as a war correspondent for BBC during WWII?
> :heavy_check_mark: George Orwell


15. What name was given to the first series of satellites launched in 1957 by the erstwhile Soviet Union?
> :heavy_check_mark: Sputnik


16. What word did the nineteenth century zoologist Sir Richard Owen coin from the Greek for **terrible lizard**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Dinosaur