# [Quarter Final 5](https://youtu.be/76wqF1nvnwk) (*ft.* Naveel, Rahul, Surbhi, Vishal)


1. Through which Indian state do the rivers Mandovi, Zuari and Chapora flow?
> :heavy_check_mark: Goa


2. The name of which blood vessel in the human body originates from the Greek word for **wind pipe**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Artery


3. What is the Japanese word for **Teacher**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Sensei


4. Who replaced Pete Best to become a part of the Beatles in 1962?
> :heavy_check_mark: Ringo Starr


5. Which historical city in Central India derives its name from the prevalence of date palm tress in the area?
> :heavy_check_mark: Khajuraho


6. Built in 1703 by John Sheffield, which regal residence was purchased by King George III in 1761?
> :heavy_check_mark: Buckingham Palace


7. Which annual sporting event was first promoted by the French magazine, **L'auto** brought out by the journalist Henri Desgrange?
> :heavy_check_mark: Tour de France


8. Which branch of Mathematics deals with systems that are inherently unstable and unpredictable?
> :heavy_check_mark: Chaos Theory


9. Which stateman coined the term **Axis** for the German-Italian alliance, in a speech at Milan in 1936?
> :heavy_check_mark: Benito Mussolini


10. The autobiography of which prominent Indian is subtitled **My Music, My Life** and has an introduction by Yehudi Menuhin?
> :heavy_check_mark: Ravi Shankar


11. In Hindu mythology, what was the name of the capital city of Indra's celestial empire?
> :heavy_check_mark: Amravati


12. In the periodic table, what name meaning **salt producer** is given to elements such as Flourine, Chlorine and Bromine?
> :heavy_check_mark: Halogens


13. How do we better know the sixteenth century Hindu mystic, Vishvambhara Mishra, associated with a Vaishnava school of worship?
> :heavy_check_mark: Chaitanya Mahaprabhu


14. Which automobile company was founded by August Horsch and named after the German word for **hear**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Audi


15. Which building serves as the headquarters if the US Department of Defence?
> :heavy_check_mark: Pentagon


16. Painted Lady, Red Admiral and Monarch are species of which kind of flying creatures?
> :heavy_check_mark: Butterflies


17. Which term often used in publishing was coined by chemist Henry Wellcome in 1880s to describe a small new tablet he had invented?
> :heavy_check_mark: Tabloid