# [Quarter Final 1](https://youtu.be/snCIBI8ISxw) (*ft.* Anirban, Biswa, Pavitra, Sumaira)


1. By what Spanish name is the West Indian fruit **The Alligator Pear** more commonly known as?
> :heavy_check_mark: Avocado


2. Which actor, born **Michael Shalhoub** in Egypt is remembered for films such as *Dr. Zhivago* and *Lawrence of Arabia*?
> :heavy_check_mark: Omar Sharif


3. Which monument in Delhi built by Sher Shah in 1545 gets its present name from the execution of the two sons of Bahadur Shah by the British?
> :heavy_check_mark: Khooni Darwaza


4. What did Dutch chemist and NObel laureate Kammerlingh Onnes discover in 1913, working in low temperature physics?
> :heavy_check_mark: Superconductivity


5. Which word was coined by Lewis Carroll to define words like **smog** in which two words combine together to make a new word?
> :heavy_check_mark: Portmanteau


6. Which product was initially sold under the brand name **Hindustan Landmaster**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Ambassador (car)


7. Which newspaper magnate who took over the *New York World* in 1883, established an annual prize for literature, drama and journalism in his will?
> :heavy_check_mark: Joseph Pulitzer (The Pulitzer Prize)


8. Which modern kingdom was founded in 1932 by uniting the four tribal provinces of Hejaz, Asir, Najd and Al Hasa?
> :heavy_check_mark: Saudi Arabia


9. Which **Tintin** characters make a guest appearance in an Asterix book, Asterix in Belgium?
> :heavy_check_mark: Thompson and Thomson


10. Whom did the character David Bowman kill in the Arthur C CLarke novel, *2001: A Space Odyssey* because it had gone beserk?
> :heavy_check_mark: HAL 9000 (the computer)


11. What term derived from the Hebrew for **proper** is applied to food that is served in accordance with the Jewish dietary laws?
> :heavy_check_mark: Kosher


12. According to Hindu mythology, which celestial cow was created during the cosmic churning of the ocean?
> :heavy_check_mark: Kamadhenu/Surabhi