# [Quarter Final 4](https://youtu.be/aH_4qP-oFQ4) (*ft.* Kenny, Neville, Rahul, Smrutika)


1. In which river was Jesus baptised by John the Baptist?
> :heavy_check_mark: Jordan


2. In Mathematics what term is used to refer to the quantity that has both magnitude and direction?
> :heavy_check_mark: Vector


3. Which state government gives away an annual prestigious award in the name of Lata Mangeshkar?
> :heavy_check_mark: Madhya Pradesh


4. **The Nikkei** is the main share index of which city's stock exchange?
> :heavy_check_mark: Tokyo


5. What is common to Venus Flytrap, Sundew and Bladderwort plants?
> :heavy_check_mark: Carnivorous plants


6. Which medical term is derived from the Greek for **good death**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Euthanasia


7. The work of which twentieth century Spanish artist is divided into **Blue period** and **Rose period**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Pablo Picasso


8. Who serves as the constitutional head of state of Australia?
> :heavy_check_mark: Queen Elizabeth II (British Monarch)


9. What came to an end in 1865 with the surrender of General Robert Lee and his army at Appomattox Court House?
> :heavy_check_mark: American Civil War


10. Director Robert Zemeckis's 1978 film **I Wanna Hold Your Hand** was about the fans of which music group?
> :heavy_check_mark: The Beatles


11. Which form of verse, originally rendered in thirteenth century AD Sicily, always has a fourteen line rhyme scheme?
> :heavy_check_mark: Sonnet


12. Which Mughal emperor sought to introduce the **Elahi era**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Akbar


13. In 1953, which leader was succeeded by Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed as Prime Minister of Kashmir?
> :heavy_check_mark: Sheikh Abdullah


14. Which well-known theatre and film artist, and former Rhodes scholar wrote the Kannada plays **Yayati** and **Nagamandala**?
> :heavy_check_mark: Girish Karnad


15. What kind of soft cotton fabric takes its name from the middle eastern town of Musol?
> :heavy_check_mark: Muslin


16. Which physical fitness programme was created by Dr Kenneth Cooper, a former US Air Force flight surgeon in the late 60s?
> :heavy_check_mark: Aerobics


17. What global communications giant was originally set up by Alexander Graham Bell as the Bell Telephone Company in 1877?
> :heavy_check_mark: AT & T